---
title: blacksmith generate model
enterprise: false
---

# `blacksmith generate model`

This command generates a [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org/) allowing to
validate data against the generated model.

**Example:**
```bash
$ blacksmith generate model \
  --name user \
  --path ./models

Generating files:

  -> Generating model at ./models
     Success!
```

## Required flags

- `--name [name]`: Set the name of the model. It shall be a valid name only
  containing lowercase letters (`a-z`), underscores (`_`), and dashes (`-`).

  **Aliases:** `-n [name]`

  **Example:**
  ```bash
  $ blacksmith generate model \
    --name user
  ```

## Optional flags

- `--extend [resource]`: Generate a model extending the JSON schema of a Blacksmith
  resource. This flag allows to *extend* / *inherit from* a specific resource
  without maintaining the internal schema of the Blacksmith resource.

  **Values:**
  - `trigger/cdc`: Extends the JSON schema returned by the **E**xtraction of a
    trigger in mode `cdc`.
  - `trigger/http_client`: Extends the JSON schema returned by the **E**xtraction
    of a trigger in mode `http_client`.
  - `trigger/http_endpoint`: Extends the JSON schema returned by the **E**xtraction
    of a trigger in mode `http_endpoint`.
  - `trigger/subscription`: Extends the JSON schema returned by the **E**xtraction
    of a trigger in mode `subscription`.

  **Example:**
  ```bash
  $ blacksmith generate model \
    --name user \
    --extend trigger/http_endpoint
  ```

- `--path [path]`: Relative path where the model's file will be generated. If the
  directories don't exist, they will automatically be created (if possible). If
  files already exist at the path with the same name of the ones generated by the
  CLI, an error will be prompted. The CLI will never override existing files.

  **Aliases:** `-p [path]`

  **Example:**
  ```bash
  $ blacksmith generate model \
    --name user \
    --path ./models
  ```
